Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and how it has been rejected off of the
200-day simple moving average. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and check out the sale on
Into the Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
I know this channel mostly focuses on on
Bitcoin and some of the other
commodities like gold and silver and and
you know, we talk a little bit about
stocks and other markets, but I just
want you to know that on ITC Premium, we
spend a lot more time talking about
other markets. So, I want to I I you
know, it is it is goes far beyond what I
just normally do here on YouTube. And
one of the things I wanted to mention,
too, is that to kind of further explore
certain ideas,
I'm planning on throwing a conference
later this year. I've mentioned it a
couple of times, but I just want people
to be aware. Uh feel free to fill out
this little form here if you want to
stay updated. Uh if you're in fact you
might be interested in going to the
conference. I don't really fully know
all the details yet, but the goal is Q4
and probably in the United States
somewhere, maybe Miami if it works out.
So,
uh in the short term, Bitcoin has been
rejected at the 200-day moving average,
and we're going to talk a a little bit
about what this looks like and
you know,
historically, the 200-day moving average
provides resistance in bear markets.
Uh like same thing in May of 2018,
Bitcoin rallied to the 200-day moving
average,
and then came back down into June.
Uh sorry, I'm tired.
We have a
you know, a baby that's pretty young, so
we're not sleeping a whole lot over
here, but
um
and then we rallied up to the 200-day
moving average in 2022 as well,
and then kind of sold off into June.
The only exception that you can find
sort of in the larger mid-term year bear
markets is 2014, when we did get
slightly above 200-day moving average,
right? So, and this is one of those
things I I look back at a lot and it
does show you how sometimes the market
deviates a little bit from some of these
patterns that you'll see other years.
So,
always stay on your toes. You know, this
is not This market is is far from a sure
thing and I don't want to give anyone
the impression that it is a sure thing
cuz it's not.
My guess is that the weakness will
persist
with Bitcoin
into Q3
and probably at least into early Q4.
That is my guess.
Now,
one of the things that Bitcoin has yet
to do, and honestly, I don't know if
it's going to do it. I mean, I I would
be perfectly happy if it doesn't, but
um historically, after you get these
these drops, Bitcoin does eventually go
to the 0.382. Now, you can see in 2014,
Bitcoin didn't really tag that 0.382
until June as measured from the April,
though.
In 2018,
in 2018, it tagged the 0.382
um
in March.
Above the 200-day moving average. And in
2022,
you can see that it it tagged the 0.382
in in April.
It It's actually been elusive this time,
which is kind of interesting. Like it it
never really quite made it up there. But
it doesn't mean it won't.
I still wonder, you know, when you look
at this view through the lens of 2019,
it even went a little bit higher. But
the point is is, you know, when I think
about
how the market's going to play out, I
think about sort of like windows of
weakness and windows of strength.
Usually, the big window of weakness is
early February and then early April. And
I put out a video calling for these
windows of weakness into early February
and into early April. The next one, if
we get it, is into June, and then the
one after that is October. So, that's
how it tends to work. You have February,
April, June, October.
Is it always like that?
No, right? No, it's not, but those tend
to be some of the months where Bitcoin
can often can often be weak.
Um in in mid-term years, I should say.
And the October one, you know, it it it
it's a little bit more variable.
Sometimes it's November or December, but
you typically have a low in Q4.
Um and usually it's 1 year after the
top. So, if the top in 2021, you can see
the top was November, the low was the
November. In the cycle before that, the
high was December and then the low was
December.
And so, you know, I'm over here just
speculating dubiously, of course, like
why not? Just call it October to October
and then we call it a day.
And you know, there's a lot of push back
on that and and saying it can't be that
simple, but I would push back on that
and say, well, you know, it was that
simple to call the top to just say,
"Look, Q4 2025 is going to be the top.
Fade the supercycle, guys. Fade the you
know, the alt season, bros. Fade all
that you know, that stuff."
And it wasn't seen favorably and then
Bitcoin topped anyways.
It would be remarkable if
despite everyone calling how this time
is different, we just top out at the
200-day moving average
anyways.
Um
So, what I would say though, I mean, as
far as the 0.382 and and sort of the
mid-80s,
you could have a scenario because I'm
thinking about the structure that we're
getting here.
And what Bitcoin has been seeing is it's
been higher highs,
higher highs and higher lows. What's
interesting is if you look at 2018, it
was lower highs,
right? So, it was a a high in March and
then a lower high in May, and then a
lower high in July.
After weakness in February,
April,
and June.
So,
one way, you know, there's a couple of
paths that I think are relevant, right?
So, we'll go through the more bearish
path path first, then we'll look at the
more bullish path that
still leads to a new low.
Right? I mean, I have the bear goggles
on. I'm not taking them off, no matter
how many people on Twitter come after
me. Bear goggles staying on. Okay. So,
rejection off the 200-day.
The more bearish view
is
it comes down
into May, holds there for a little,
and then sells off into June, and then
sweeps the February low like it did in
2018 at the end of 2018.
Okay?
From there,
you could have sort of a countertrend
rally in July and August.
Um you know, something looks like this
before then going lower into October,
and then marking hopefully the market
cycle bottom. Right? That is one view.
I think that is a perfectly reasonable
view.
The other view
would say, okay, if Bitcoin does have to
tag the 0.382
before you get that final drop, because
it always has. And and again, like you
could sweep the low, but it not be kind
of like   the big one.
Again, when you look at prior moves, you
can see we always tagged that 0.382
level before kind of really selling off
into the
the end of the bear market, right? Like
it it always tagged that level.
And so, there's another path
that would call for to drop
into June,
I get all paired up again.
I think it just goes right back up to
the highs.
People dunk on me again.
And then you sell off into into Q4.
Right?
Again, I don't know exactly which one of
those paths it's going to take. Um
but you know, I mean one of the things
to remember too is there's there's there
are examples where, you know, Bitcoin
goes to the 200-day moving average.
Normally after going to the 200-day
moving average, we then go back down to
at least the 20-week SMA. So, if you
look at 2018, you can see we went
through the 20-week SMA,
came down, found support, back up, and
then down. That was the pattern in 2022.
In 2018,
it was above it, back down, small
bounce, and then down into the August
low. Okay? And then in 2014,
you can see we got through the bull
market support band,
back down, back up a little, and then
ultimately back down. So, this is what
I'm saying is like in 2014, there wa-
there still was a June low. Right? Like
it cuz we we ended up getting this big
drop into June regardless. So,
I I just wonder if this is how this is
going to play out is where you get this
kind of drop into June, you get a little
bit of a countertrend rally, and then
you sell off again into the end of the
year. By the way, in 2014, you had a
major low in early February.
Or sorry, early February, you had
another one in late February, another
one in in early April. The next major
low after April was not until October.
And it was early October. And I think
early October is when a significant low
occurs. Now, I got a lot of people, you
know, saying all sorts of stuff.
But I'll I'll I'll I want to say
something about, you know, some of these
views, okay?
When I talked about altcoins
and how bearish they were for the last
like 5 or 6 years, a lot of people hated
it, right? Like it was not a popular
view.
Anytime we got any rally at all by
altcoins on their Bitcoin pairs,
it was almost, you know, unbearable, all
right, to be on Twitter.
But you look back after all these years
and you can see that the trend played
out, right? You can see it. You can see
that everyone else who was calling for
alt season or the banana banana zone,
super cycle, all that, they were all
wrong, right? They were all wrong.
But the point is is
what kept me what kept my conviction so
strong on it
was monetary policy and the macro.
But the thing that kept me the strongest
on it
was not
any of that stuff.
It was just simply looking at the trend
and saying, "You know what?
The bull case for alts is that they find
support down here.
And we call it an oscillator and pretend
like alts are oscillating against
Bitcoin. So, this is total two
minus USDT divided by Bitcoin. But if
you look at total three minus USDT
divided by Bitcoin, I said the same
thing, right? I said we're going all the
way back down here
and
a lot of people are like, "Well, you're
too you're too bearish on it, right?
Like it'll you know, what if it what if
it bottoms sooner?"
And
I was always looking at this as the
optimistic view, right? To me,
calling this an oscillator is the
optimistic way to look at it. You know,
because the reality
is that every cycle
every
not every most like I would say like
99.99% of all coins bleed to Bitcoin.
A few outperform Bitcoin for one cycle.
Even fewer outperform it for two, but
eventually they essentially all bleed to
Bitcoin with maybe the exception of your
altcoin. Okay, I'm not talking about
your alt, but everyone else's alt
essentially just bleeds to Bitcoin over
the macro scale, even though there might
be one or two cycles of outperformance.
Okay?
So,
when I'm thinking about the current
market, thinking about how social
interest never came back,
when I was talking about the bear trend
for altcoins for those all those years,
I was always so convinced that the trend
would continue
that to call for us just to go to the
range lows was the optimistic case.
Because the pessimistic case, and
honestly the more rational view on
alt-Bitcoin pairs, is that they're
actually in a downtrend.
And you have
lower highs
and lower lows.
And so, what if
this whole period here
is not
this down here, but this area
right there.
But it's a longer version of it. And
it's a longer version of it because the
business cycle is larger, right? Like
the extent of things is larger. Interest
rates remained elevated for far longer.
I mean, you can see, like look at this
little thing right here with interest
rates, and look what we've had this
time.
So, what allowed me to stay on the right
side of the market, and I know if you're
if you're here for Bitcoin, you're like,
"What the hell is he going on this
roundabout?" I'll I'll get to it in a
second.
I looked at it and I didn't care about
the macro when I looked at the chart and
I'm like, "Look guys, this is a bleeder
potentially." So, to call for it to go
just simply to the lows
was the optimistic view on altcoins.
Which is why I always remained bearish
on it and people called me a permabear.
If you guys followed me in 2019 and
2020, I was actually very bullish on
altcoins. But, the problem is most
people that followed me now started
following me in 2021. So, they never saw
that version of me, right? They never
saw that version of Ben. They only ever
have seen the version, you know, that
was bullish in 2021 on alts, but then
flipped bearish and it's just been
bearish ever since. So, they call me a
permabear. But, the problem is the
market conditions never actually
changed, which is why I continued to
remain steadfast with that view.
Now,
the same thing's going on with Bitcoin
right now, okay?
When I talk about Bitcoin bottoming
potentially in Q4,
that's the optimistic view, right? For
me. Like, that is the optimistic way to
look at the market.
Because the optimistic way to look at
the market is just simply to say, "Hey,
Bitcoin bottoms approximately every 4
years. So,
why not assume that the next low is Q4
of 2026? And if you have a low in the
fourth quarter of 2026, I will probably
be buying and I'll ask questions later
about what it means, where where are we
in the business cycle, you know?
So, when I think about like where the
market is right now,
I don't really worry that much if
Bitcoin's rallying up to all-time highs.
I mean, maybe I should be, right? Maybe
that should be what I'm worried about,
but I'm not. Like, it's not really
something that I even care about right
now.
As weird as that sounds. Like, it's just
like it it it You know I say that like
Bitcoin topped on apathy.
That that reflects the whole market. I
think there's a lot of people here that
have also turned apathetic as well. Like
even if Bitcoin were to rally back up to
85k or 90k,
I think to myself, like so what? Like I
mean it was essentially at those prices
for all of last year.
And nothing really came of it, you know?
So,
when I think about
you know, sort of a bottom in October,
that's the that's my optimistic view.
Because the pessimistic view is to say,
well, what if the business cycle ends
late 2026? Because
if the business cycle ends in late 2026,
then by the time Bitcoin should be
starting its bull market, it gets taken
down by lower risk assets, stocks. Now,
I know that sounds kind of crazy,
but think for a moment about all
altcoins. When do altcoins normally have
alt season? When does it normally
happen? It happens near the end of post
having years, right? The end of 2013,
the end of 2017, the end of 2021. All of
a sudden it was in the middle.
Therefore, the end of 2025 is
theoretically when you would have had an
alt season had the macro allowed for it.
But you didn't.
Why didn't you have an alt season in Q4?
Because Bitcoin entered into a bear
market in Q4.
So, in the in the sort of the
uh you know, the the
mentality of of rolling down the risk or
rolling down the risk curve,
altcoins would have started alt season
in a normal cycle,
but then Bitcoin entered a bear market
before euphoria could start.
So then,
what if Q4 happens, Bitcoin puts in a
new low, and it should start a bull
market cuz that's when bull markets
start, but then the stock market enters
a bear market according to the S&P M2
fractal,
then that could cause Bitcoin to not
really get that bull market that, you
know, many of us are hoping for. So,
I don't sit here, personally, and worry,
spend too much time worrying about is
Bitcoin going to go back to up to
all-time highs. I think to myself, look,
I could be wrong. You know, sometimes I
get confident about a certain view, and
then it ends up being wrong. But, it's
not the main thing on my mind. I mean,
the main thing on my mind right now is
the child we just have, right? Not not
not this. Uh but, when I think about
what is the most likely outcome, I say,
all right, the most likely outcome
is a low in October.
That's the most likely outcome.
The next most likely outcome is that the
business cycle
ends
over the next couple of years.
Hopefully, the business cycle
does not end right when Bitcoin's bull
market should start.
Because that's what happened to
altcoins, right? because of monetary
policy,
and no one was here, but it also could I
mean, Bitcoin entered into a bear market
the minute you would have expected alts
to take off in the first place. So, it
didn't happen.
So, I want you to think about that later
this year. If we're sitting here in Q4,
it's going to be scary, man. Like, I
mean, if if the stock market gets
another correction, and it follows our
S&P M2 fractal, like, it is going to be
scary. But, there is a chance
that Bitcoin finds a low in October,
and we rally into a bull market, and the
bull market might last for a year or two
before the business cycle ends. So, it
it it No one knows exactly how this is
going to play out. But, the point about
the altcoin analogy was for so many
years, I, you know, listened to people
say why I was wrong about alt season not
happening and why I was going to miss
out. And I was never really that
concerned by it because I was looking at
the chart and being like, "Look, guys,
alt season ain't going anywhere, you
know, like the macro doesn't allow for
it.
And monetary policy is much too tight
for high-risk assets, these frothy
assets that really do well. Just fade
it, you know, and and and fade the
people that that keep calling for that
stuff.
And now I think the same thing about
Bitcoin. Honestly, I mean as as much as
I hate it, I think the same thing. I
mean, you know, it was it was
essentially Bitcoin going up that lifted
the altcoin market at all in the first
place. Now, it's the stock market going
up that's allowing Bitcoin to go up. If
the stock market didn't just rally, you
know, like 30% off the lows, I don't
know if Bitcoin would have had this
little rally at all.
But first, it was Bitcoin lifting alts.
Now, it's the stock market lifting
Bitcoin. And then after it becomes
obvious to everyone and their and their
brother and sister and aunt and uncle
that Bitcoin is actually in a bear
market and it's not just some correction
before a supercycle,
then perhaps the stock market will only
be going up because gold is lifting it,
you know? And you just roll down the
risk curve.
So,
Bitcoin rallied to the 200-day,
got rejected.
A lot of times after Bitcoin gets
rejected,
it'll find support
temporarily around the 20-week moving
average,
which is currently around 75, okay?
Sometimes it goes below it and like
wicks down further, sometimes it finds
support right around there.
The problem, though, is that
it still tends to go lower, you know,
and I would say like best-case scenario,
it gets a little bit of a rally, hits
the 0.382, and then drops.
But, I do think the next drop will come
and it'll likely start before you you
see it more obviously happening in the
stock market. Again, in 2022 and in
2018, the drop that Bitcoin had that
took it to new lows after you had the
low early on in the year in in Q1
corresponded to a drop in the stock
market.
So, my guess is that we will have
another drop in the stock market later
on this year. That doesn't mean it has
to start now. I mean, it could, but, you
know, you could have the stock market 5%
drop and then it rallies to new highs
and then another drop later on.
Um but again, you know,
we'll see how it plays out.
My main concern,
honestly, with Bitcoin is not whether
it's about to go to new all-time highs,
even though I could be wrong. Like, I
absolutely could be wrong. I'm not that
concerned about that. I'm more concerned
about, you know, if Q4 comes, um is that
the low, right? I mean, even in 2015 it
went lower into January, right? I mean,
we had a low in October and then it
still went lower into January on There
was recession fears back then.
So, it's not like it's impossible. I
mean, imagine in 2014. Imagine you're a
bull a bear in 2014 and you're it's Q4
and you say Bitcoin's going to drop for
a year. Okay, it's November.
And let's just say you call for a low in
October.
People think you're a genius in December
and I think you're an idiot in January.
I think you're a genius in
February and I think you're idiot again
in March. And then you're a genius again
in April. And then by June,
every bull that was bullish up here at
1,200 is calling you a complete
for staying bearish when it went all the
way to 345. And now they're celebrating
and they're dancing on your wrong
prediction, even though they were
bullish way up here.
And then it just gets quiet as Bitcoin
goes lower into October.
And then you look at it
and you're like, "Ha, see I told you.
The low was October."
You get a nice rally, you feel
confident, you're like, "All right, told
you, bull market's back on." And then it
goes lower again.
I'm not concerned, honestly, about if
Bitcoin goes to new all-time highs. If
it does, I mean, yeah, I'll be wrong.
I'll admit it, I'm wrong. But the main
thing I'm worried about is not that,
it's more so when is the low, right? Is
Is it October? I hope it is.
My plan
Everyone needs a plan. My plan is if
there is a low in October,
I will buy it.
Wait a few weeks, then ask questions.
And and and just go one week at a time.
Um
we'll see how it plays out though, if if
this 200-day moving average continues
past prior resistance or not.
And um we'll take it, you know,
one step at a time through the bear
market. My guess is that it it it
eventually does fall off. By the way, if
you look at uh stablecoin dominance,
it's rallying back up, right? I mean,
kind of all right where it normally does
in bear markets.
So you can see that
it went slightly below
um the 21-week EMA.
And now it's rallying back up.
Guess what?
That's exactly how it found bottoms in
the last bear market.
Right below
the 21-week EMA, 20-week SMA. It's how
it kind of moved up. You would move up,
come back, right? Move up,
come back. Keep moving up.
Same thing.
Okay?
So and even over here, I mean, you can
see kind of how how this stuff played
out. Many times that we go just below it
before then rallying. You know, just
enough to get people on the wrong side
of the market.
And then and then, you know, people sort
of flee back over to uh
to stable. So,
I see this playing out how it normally
does. The only other thing to look at is
is it following the 2019 move at all?
Eh, it's starting to fade it a little
bit. I guess there is still time to get
uh final rally potentially uh to the
point 382 and still follow that 2019
move. But, I got to be honest. I mean,
when you look at the year-to-date ROI of
Bitcoin in 2026 and you compare it to
2018, I mean, it it is, you know, again,
a low in February, highs in March,
another higher low in April, high in
May, and then it started to sell off
into June.
Right? So, it is still tracking.
It's not I mean, in 2014, this these are
the levels it rallied to up here before
then fading off into that October low.
And in 2022, you can see it even rallied
a little beyond where it just rallied
before fading off into the June low.
And when you look at the average of all
prior midterm years
and you overlay one standard deviation
on that average, if this is to play out
like the midterm years, we're well above
where we should be right now. Right?
Where we should be according to the
average is around
about 40% down from the yearly open.
Right? 40% down from the yearly open.
And 40% down from the yearly open
is a lot lower than where we are right
now.
All right, so
if you look at
40% from here,
you're talking about around 51, 52k.
That's where we normally are at this
point in midterm years. And so,
sometimes, when you get these rallies,
you know, it can it can drop people back
in, but then who's to say it can't just
sell off and eventually go right back
down to that average by the summer.
I think that's a distinct possibility
and I do think that the you know, the
potential upside for Bitcoin in the
mid-term year
this early stage of the mid-term year
doesn't really justify it just doesn't
and I know there's a lot of people that
that think I'm wrong but look, you know,
the the markets I was bullish on going
into this year, they've all outperformed
Bitcoin. Manufacturing, international
markets uh gold, even silver and energy
they're all outperforming Bitcoin this
year. So
that's what I'm focusing on. I think
that'll pivot later this year but that's
where I am
in terms of how I'm trying to do follow
this. So again, if you want to track
more of this stuff, check out ITC
premium. We have that sale going on.
Links in the description below. And if
you do want more um
you know, if you want to see me
potentially at a uh an ITC conference
later this year, fill out the form and
make sure you get updates as they come
in. We'll wrap it up there. Thank you
guys for tuning in. Subscribe and I'll
see you next time. Bye.